# Graph-Coloring-via-Learning-and-Metric-Guided-Independent-Set-Extraction
In this repo we show how to solve graph coloring problem with metric guided independent set extraction, as outlined in paper "Graph Coloring via Learning and Metric-Guided Independent Set Extraction".
## Introduction
Recent advances in Graph Neural Networks(GNNs) have enabled learning-based approachesto a wide range of combinatorial optimizationproblems. In this paper, we address one such classical and challenging problem—graph coloring. We introduce an algorithmic framework for graph coloring based on repeated extraction of large independent sets using GNNs. The choice of independent sets to be chosen for coloring is further guided by metrics which favor use of minimum number of colors. To improve scalability, we further enhance this framework with a value-aware GNN that operate on reduced graphs, learning effective independent set extraction directly on compact representations before lifting solutions to the original graph. We also present a new formulation for quantum circuit depth optimization as a mixed graph coloring problem. The presented approach is evaluated on standard DIMACS benchmark graphs and citation network datasets. We also evaluate Guided beam search for benchmark quantum circuit instances.
## Data 
The standard DIMACS benchmark graph dataset is available at https://mat.tepper.cmu.edu/COLOR/instances.html.
We have taken 71 graphs from the above dataset and store it in form of pickle file "networkx_graphs.pkl" with corresponding details such as name and color label saved in "graph_names.pkl" and "graph_colors.pkl". Here color label is the number of colors used in optimal coloring if known else the color label is "?". All the models learned such as Guided Beam search (GBS), Weighted Guided Beam SEarch (W-GBS), Value-aware GBS are evaluated for these 71 graphs. For evaluating performance of GBS for quantum circuit depth optimization we use few quantum circuit instances available at https://github.com/pnnl/QASMBench.
